# Mountain_Peak_Identification
The main goal of this project is to identify and tag mountain peaks from geo-tagged photos. The primary method used will be edge matching between geo-tagged photo and the terrain synthesized from a Digital Elevation model. This terrain model will be synthesized as the observer is positioned at the geo-tagged location. Our challenge will be to reach a very high accuracy, since publicly available digital elevation models have very coarse resolution. We will be using ASTER GDEM publicly available Digital Elevation Model by NASA for this project.  For the testing, VENTURI Mountain Dataset which contains 12 outdoor sequences with each frame containing the ground truth values.
Test Data Set: Mountain Dataset

Method Overview:
The proposed method’s aim is to find the mountain peaks in the geo-tagged photographs using the information in terrain synthesized from a Digital Elevation model.
	Image Pre-processing: The field of view of the photograph is calculated from the focal length and size of camera using EXIF data of the photograph. The photograph is rescaled to corresponds to 3600 field of view of panorama generated by the Digital Elevation Model. Edge detection is employed to match images in photograph and panorama.
	Global alignment: A skyline detection algorithm is applied to all photos and all edges above skyline is removed as they might be obstacles or clouds. Then a filtering procedure is applied to remove the edges which does not follow a contour line which might be due to people, building and vegetation. For panorama, topmost edge point is retained for each column of pixels, a morphological dilation is applied to highlight the skyline. The matching will be performed with Vector Cross Correlation technique.
	Refining global alignment: From the Vector Cross Correlation, we get k-top candidates for matching. For each of these points, a Hausdorff distance is calculated between skyline edge points of photo and panorama. A scoring function is computed, which combines the Hausdorff distance and the rank position computed by the initial global alignment. The candidate with the highest score is considered best match.
	Local alignment: Local alignment is performed to alleviate the difficulty in finding correct global alignment which is caused by the noisy geo-tag used in creating panorama. A separate Vector Cross Correlation is applied to all points in the neighborhood of the peak identified in the global alignment. 
